[OSDOCS-3901] Created the topic map for ROSA HCP (#55565)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_getting_started_sts/rosa_creating_a_cluster_with_sts/rosa-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc
// * rosa_getting_started/rosa-getting-started.adoc
// * rosa_getting_started/quickstart.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-cli_{context}"]

> = Creating {hcp} for ROSA cluster using the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Creating a {hcp} for ROSA cluster using the CLI
```

> When using {hcp} for {product-title} (ROSA) CLI (`rosa`) to create a cluster, you can select the default options to create the cluster quickly.

Reviewer: Can this be rephrased? Renders as follows, which i found confusing:

> When using hosted control planes for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) CLI (rosa) to create a cluster

.Prerequisites

* You have completed the AWS prerequisites for ROSA HCP.
* You have available AWS service quotas.
* You have enabled the ROSA service in the AWS Console.
* You have installed and configured the latest ROSA CLI (`rosa`) on your installation host.
+
[NOTE]
====
To successfully install ROSA clusters, use the latest version of the ROSA CLI.
====
* You have logged in to your Red Hat account by using the `rosa` CLI.

> * You have verified that the AWS Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) service role exists in your AWS account.

Author: Do you mean reuse them like with a snippet or modules? If so, not really since we cannot embed modules/snippets within a module/snippet.

.Procedure

//. Create environmental variables for your region and cluster name.
//+
//[source,terminal]
//----
//CLUSTER_NAME="<cluster-name>"
//REGION="<region>"
//----

. You can create your {hcp} for ROSA cluster with one of the following commands. 
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are using your own OIDC provider, you must include the endpoint URL and ARN arguments, such as `--oidc-endpoint-url <oidc_endpoint_url> --oidc-private-key-secret-arn <oidc_private_key_secret_arn>`.
====

.. Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, publicly available API, and publicly available Ingress by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>

Reviewer: Consider breaking your commands up for readability:

```suggestion
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=<cluster_name>  \
   --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>
```

> $ rosa create cluster --cluster-name $CLUSTER_NAME --subnet-ids $PUBLIC_SUBNET,$PRIVATE_SUBNET --sts --mode auto --machine-cidr 10.0.0.0/16 --compute-machine-type m5.xlarge --hosted-cp --region $REGION --version 4.12.1 -y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>
```

----

> .. Create a private cluster with a single availability zone:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, privately available API, and privately available Ingress:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa create cluster --private --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ rosa create cluster --private --cluster-name=<cluster_name>  \
   --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>
```

> $ rosa create cluster --cluster-name $CLUSTER_NAME --subnet-ids $PRIVATE_SUBNET --private --sts --mode auto --machine-cidr 10.0.0.0/16 --compute-machine-type m5.xlarge --hosted-cp --region $REGION --version 4.12.1 -y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ rosa create cluster --private --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>
```

> .. Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, publicly available API, and publicly available Ingress by running the following command:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>
> ----
> 
> .. Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, privately available API, and privately available Ingress by running the following command:
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ rosa create cluster --private --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>
> ----
> +
> [NOTE]
> ====
> When you specify `--mode auto`, the `rosa create cluster` command creates the cluster-specific Operator IAM roles and the OIDC provider automatically. The Operators use the OIDC provider to authenticate.
> ====

Reviewer: IIUC, they will only do one of these, not both in sequence. If that's right, should be unordered bullets:
```suggestion
** Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, publicly available API, and publicly available Ingress by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<public-subnet-id>,<private-subnet-id>
----

** Create a cluster with a single, initial machine pool, privately available API, and privately available Ingress by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --private --cluster-name=<cluster_name> --sts --mode=auto --hosted-cp --subnet-ids=<private-subnet-id>
----
+
[NOTE]
====
When you specify `--mode auto`, the `rosa create cluster` command creates the cluster-specific Operator IAM roles and the OIDC provider automatically. The Operators use the OIDC provider to authenticate.
====
```

. Check the status of your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa describe cluster -c $CLUSTER_NAME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ rosa describe cluster --cluster=<cluster_name>
```

----
+
The following `State` field changes are listed in the output as the cluster installation progresses:
+
* `waiting (Waiting for OIDC configuration)`
* `pending (Preparing account)`
* `installing (DNS setup in progress)`
* `installing`
* `ready`
+
[NOTE]
====

> If the installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after about 40 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for details. For more information, see _Troubleshooting installations_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after no more than 10 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for details. For more information, see _Troubleshooting installations_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.
```

> If the installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after no more than 10 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for details. For more information, see _Troubleshooting installations_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the installation fails or the `State` field does not change to `ready` after more than 10 minutes, check the installation troubleshooting documentation for details. For more information, see _Troubleshooting installations_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.
```

====

> . Track the progress of the cluster creation by watching the OpenShift installer logs. To check the logs, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Track the progress of the cluster creation by watching the {product-title} installation program logs. To check the logs, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa logs install -c $CLUSTER_NAME --region $REGION --watch <1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ rosa logs install --cluster=<cluster_name> --watch <1>
```

----

> <1> Specify the `--watch` flag to watch for new log messages as the installation progresses. This argument is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Optional: To watch for new log messages as the installation progresses, use the `--watch` argument.
```
